Add hearbeat register (#45)
harp-tech/protocol: Device.md

| 1          	| Speed Mode.                                                                                              	|
| 0.1        	| A critical error occurred. Only a hardware reset or a new power up can remove the device from this Mode. 	|

> * **ALIVE_EN [Bit 7]:** If set to 1, the device sends an `Event` Message with the `R_HEARTBEAT` content each second. This allows the host to check that the status of the device periodically. This is a required feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **ALIVE_EN [Bit 7]:** If set to 1, the device sends an `Event` Message with the `R_HEARTBEAT` content each second. This allows the host to check the status of the device periodically. This is a required feature.
```

    10     :bit10, after bit11  , 6
    9      :bit9, after bit10  , 7
    9      :bit8, after bit9  , 8
    7      :bit7, after bit8  , 9
    6      :bit6, after bit7  , 10
    5      :bit5, after bit6  , 11
    4      :bit4, after bit5  , 12
    3      :bit3, after bit4  , 13
    2      :bit2, after bit3  , 14
    1      :bit1, after bit2  , 15
    0      :bit0, after bit1  , 16

    section Id
    IS_ACTIVE      :id0, 15, 16
    IS_ERROR_STATE      :id1, 14, 15
    IS_SYNCHRONIZED      :id2, 13, 14

    section Default
    -      :d7, 15, 16
    -      :d6, 14  , 15
    -      :d5, 13  , 14
```

> **Note**
>
> This register is read-only and is used to provide status information about the device. The bits are set by the device and sent through a period event. If enabled (via `R_OPERATION_CTRL` bit `ALIVE_EN`), the event will be periodically emitted at a rate of 1Hz, triggered by updates to the `R_TIMESTAMP_SECOND` register. 

The status of the device is given by the following bits:

* **IS_STANDBY [Bit 0]:** If 1, the device will be in Standby Mode. Any other modes will be coded as 0. (See `R_OPERATION_CTRL` bit `OP_MODE` for more information).

> * **IS_ERROR_STATE [Bit 1]:** This bit will be read as 1 if the device is in an error state. The implementation of an error state is expected largely implementation specific, however this state should be entered when the device is in a state where it cannot recover without manual intervention.

Author: Given this review, we are going to remove the error_bit from the current proposal and evaluate its implementation when this Error Register is discussed.
As a result, we should remove the bit and pack the other two to read:

IS_STANDBY
IS_SYNCHRONIZED

```
When the value of this register is above 0 (zero), the device’s timestamp will be offset by this amount. The register is sensitive to 500 microsecond increments. This register is non-volatile.

#### **`R_HEARTBEAT` (U16) – Heartbeat register reporting the current status of the device**

> Address: `018`

Reviewer: Should we fix this address now? Or do we need to wait for merging https://github.com/harp-tech/protocol/pull/39 and https://github.com/harp-tech/protocol/pull/38 beforehand?

In general I guess this is an interesting question regarding numbering of newly proposed common registers, should the address be part of the proposal, or should we number them incrementally as they get merged on a first-come, first-served basis?

Author: I dont think there is any requirement for registers to be sequential right now. Or at least in the protocol. I think that in general we should honor the "reserved" register of the PR in case people implemented a proof-of-concept already. But maybe there is a stronger reason to follow the sequence?

Reviewer: The mentioned PRs have been merged so this is a non-issue now.

```mermaid
---
displayMode: compact
---
gantt
    title R_HEARTBEAT (018)
    dateFormat X
    axisFormat %

    section Bit
    15      :bit15, 0, 1
    14      :bit14, after bit15  , 2
    13      :bit13, after bit14  , 3
    12      :bit12, after bit13  , 4
    11      :bit11, after bit12  , 5
    10     :bit10, after bit11  , 6
    9      :bit9, after bit10  , 7
    9      :bit8, after bit9  , 8
    7      :bit7, after bit8  , 9
    6      :bit6, after bit7  , 10
    5      :bit5, after bit6  , 11
    4      :bit4, after bit5  , 12
    3      :bit3, after bit4  , 13
    2      :bit2, after bit3  , 14
    1      :bit1, after bit2  , 15
    0      :bit0, after bit1  , 16

    section Id
    IS_ACTIVE      :id0, 15, 16

>     IS_SYNCHRONIZED      :id1, 14, 15

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the exact issue is, but for some reason the visual diagram of the register does not render correctly on my browser as the two bits are overlapping.

Author: IT appears it is a rendering bug when the labels are too lengthy. Replacing by single character strings:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ffbbd404-6c5d-4e91-9dfa-5f8c02ffd5f2)

Reviewer: How about grouping the reserved bits as we do for the other registers? e.g.:

```mermaid
---
displayMode: compact
---
gantt
    title R_HEARTBEAT (018)
    dateFormat X
    axisFormat %

    section Bit
    15-2      :reserved, 0, 1
    1         :bit1, 1, 2
    0         :bit0, 2, 3

    section Id
    -               :idr, 0, 1
    IS_ACTIVE       :id0, 1, 2
    IS_SYNCHRONIZED :id1, 2, 3

    section Default
    -      :dr, 0, 1
    -      :d7, 1, 2
    -      :d6, 2, 3
```

    section Default
    -      :d7, 15, 16
    -      :d6, 14  , 15
```

> **Note**
>
> This register is read-only and is used to provide status information about the device. The bits are set by the device and sent through a period event. If enabled (via `R_OPERATION_CTRL` bit `ALIVE_EN`), the event will be periodically emitted at a rate of 1Hz, triggered by updates to the `R_TIMESTAMP_SECOND` register.

The status of the device is given by the following bits:

* **IS_STANDBY [Bit 0]:** If 1, the device will be in Standby Mode. Any other modes will be coded as 0. (See `R_OPERATION_CTRL` bit `OP_MODE` for more information).

> * **IS_SYNCHRONIZED [Bit 1]:** If set to 1, the device is synchronized with a Harp Synchronization Clock. If the device is a clock generator (see `R_CLOCK_CONFIG` bit `CLK_GEN`), by definition, this bit will always be set to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **IS_SYNCHRONIZED [Bit 1]:** If set to 1, the device is synchronized with an external Harp clock generator. If the device is itself a clock generator (see `R_CLOCK_CONFIG` bit `CLK_GEN`), by definition, this bit will always be set to 1.
```
